---
title: "Gated Recurrent Units"
categories:
  - Deep Learning
tags:
  - Learning note
classes: wide

---



Gated Recurrent Units(GRU) is also a model that designed to deal with gradient Vanishing problem. Like LSTM, GRU use gate to control the flow of information. But it is simpler than LSTM since it only have two gates.

 On each time step $t$ we have input $x_t$ and hidden feature $h_t$:

* **Update gate**:Controls what parts of hidden state are updated vs preserved.
  
  
  $$
z_{t}=\sigma\left(\mathrm{W}_{x z} \mathrm{x}_{t}+\mathrm{W}_{h z} \mathrm{h}_{t-1}\right)
  $$
  
  
* **Reset gate**:Controls what parts of previous hidden state are used to compute new content.
  
  
  $$
\mathrm{r}_{t}=\sigma\left(\mathrm{W}_{x r} \mathrm{x}_{t}+\mathrm{W}_{h r} \mathrm{h}_{t-1}\right)
  $$
  
  
* **New hidden state content**:Reset gate selects useful parts of prev hidden state. Use this and current input to compute new hidden content.
  
  
  $$
\mathrm{c}_{t}=\tanh \left(\mathrm{W}_{x c} \mathrm{x}_{t}+\mathrm{W}_{r c}\left(\mathrm{h}_{t-1} \odot \mathrm{r}_{t}\right)\right)
  $$
  
  
* **Hidden state**:update gate simultaneously controls what is kept from previous hidden state, and what is updated to new hidden state content.
  
  
  $$
  \mathrm{h}_{t}=\left(1-\mathrm{z}_{t}\right) \odot \mathrm{c}_{t}+\mathrm{z}_{t} \odot \mathrm{h}_{t-1}
  $$





#### LSTM vs GRU

There is no evidence show which one is better than another.But typically, LSTM model is like a default choice especially if your data has particularly long dependencies, or you have lots of training data.



### Reference

[1] CS 224N Lecture notes, Standford. http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs224n/index.html